---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Mind-aware MARL For Self-Driven Particles System
author: Minglu Zhao, Jingdong Gao (Team 08)
date: 2022-09-19
---


> We are interested in applying multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) to self-driven particle systems. Specifically, we will first reproduce results from the hierarchical MARL framework, M3RL, in the resource collection environment proposed in (Shu and Tin, 2019). We will then apply the M3RL framework to the MetaDrive environment (Li et al., 2022). We also aim to reproduce the results from (Peng et al., 2021) to compare the results. Furthermore, we are inspired by role-based hierarchical MARL frameworks (Wang et al., 2020a; Wang et al., 2020b), which explicitly models agents as having different roles. In this way, a global agent aims to optimize the global utility through allocating roles to cooperating agents, which guides their policy learning. We hope to further explore this idea in the self-driven particles system. In conclusion, our group hopes to apply various hierarchy-based MARL algorithms to autonomous driving scenarios, and compare our results with existing methods.

<!--more-->
{: class="table-of-content"}
* TOC
{:toc}

## Potential Approaches
We are interested in applying multi-agent reinforcement learning (MARL) to self-driven particle systems. Specifically, we will first reproduce results from the hierarchical MARL framework, M3RL, in the resource collection environment proposed in (Shu and Tian, 2019). We will then apply the M3RL framework to the MetaDrive environment (Li et al., 2022). We also aim to reproduce the results from (Peng et al., 2021) to compare the results. 

Furthermore, we are inspired by role-based hierarchical MARL frameworks (Wang et al., 2020a; Wang et al., 2020b), which explicitly models agents as having different roles. In this way, a global agent aims to optimize the global utility through allocating roles to cooperating agents, which guides their policy learning. We hope to further explore this idea in the self-driven particles system.

In conclusion, our group hopes to apply various hierarchy-based MARL algorithms to autonomous driving scenarios, and compare our results with existing methods.



## Potential environments to use:
MetaDrive: Composing Diverse Driving Scenarios for Generalizable Reinforcement Learning
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.12674


## Relevant papers:
M3RL: Mind-aware Multi-agent Management Reinforcement Learning
https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.00147

Learning to Simulate Self-driven Particles System with Coordinated Policy Optimization
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2110.13827.pdf

Rode: Learning roles to decompose multi-agent tasks
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2010.01523.pdf

ROMA: Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning with Emergent Roles
https://arxiv.org/pdf/2003.08039.pdf
