---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning for Generating Optimal Market Liquidation Strategy
author: Shivam Patel & Abirami Anbumani (Team 29)
date: 2022-10-19
---


> We will investigate the effectiveness of Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning(MARL) for obtaining optimal liquidation strategies in Financial Markets. Liquidation is a sequential decision-making problem where an agent strategises to sell a large number of assets in a given time period taking into account a financial market environment. Since state changes in such an environment are not subject to one but multiple such agents, we seek to frame this as a Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning Problem. 

<!--more-->
{: class="table-of-content"}
* TOC
{:toc}

## Introduction
We will investigate the effectiveness of Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning(MARL) for obtaining optimal liquidation strategies in Financial Markets. Liquidation is a sequential decision-making problem where an agent strategises to sell a large number of assets in a given time period taking into account a financial market environment. Since state changes in such an environment are not subject to one but multiple such agents, we seek to frame this as a Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning Problem. 

## Contribution
As the first step, we will reproduce the result from the paper ‘Multi-agent Deep Reinforcement Learning for Liquidation Strategy Analysis'<sup>[1]</sup>. It uses Deep Deterministic Policy Gradients, an actor-critic method to generate optimal liquidation strategies.

Subsequently, we hope to make the some of the following modifications:

#### Change the underlying market model
- Almgren-Chriss Market Impact Model<sup>[2]</sup> is the standard framework for modelling financial markets. This paper also uses the same.
- We plan to incorporate adaptive trading<sup>[3]</sup> which improves upon the Almgren-Chriss model.

#### Change the liquidation problem
- The paper assumes that multiple agents only sell assets in a given time period. We aim to experiment with both buying and selling so as to make a more realistic market environment.
- We also hope to experiment with optimistic bull, pessimistic bear<sup>[4]</sup>, and anomaly events<sup>[5]</sup> if time permits. These would also contribute towards making the environment closer to real-life.

#### Modify the state space
- The state space currently includes collected rewards, trades left and assets left. We hypothesize that adding some signals that represent the current market situation might lead to better liquidation strategies.

#### Modify the reward function
- Currently the reward function includes risk aversion, implementation shortfall, and trading trajectory. We aim to include Sharpe ratio, Profit rate, Sortino Ratio, Return, and Profit & Loss and compare their effectiveness.

#### Modify the learning algorithm
- We hope to implement Advanced Actor Critic(A2C) which includes value-based agents in addition to policy-based agents.
- We also seek to experiment with Proximal Policy Optimization(PPO) for this multi-agent setting.

We understand that it might not be feasible to implement all these modifications. We will prioritise the changes that we feel are most impactful.

## Potential Difficulties
We predict that the following difficulties could arise when carrying out the project:
- Implementing adaptive trading will probably require changes in the learning algorithm itself. We can address this by making the trade rate a predicted variable of the model.
- Permitting both buying and selling of assets will require some modifications to the Algren-Chriss model. Carefully analysing the impact factors can provide insight on how to do this.
- A2C and PPO have their own problems which will need addressing. For example, PPO is an on-policy method and thus could suffer from the problem of being stuck in a local minima. One way to address this is by adding entropy coefficients to environment.

## Conclusion
We expect to deliver a learning agent trained using MARL, which is more robust and effective in real-world trading scenarios. We also seek to understand multi-agent's cooperate-compete behaviour to open up new directions for future research.

## Team Information
#### Team 29
- Shivam Patel (805626050)
- Abirami Anbumani (005526158)

## Reference
[1] Bao, W. and Liu, X.Y., 2019. Multi-agent deep reinforcement learning for liquidation strategy analysis. arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.11046.

[2] Almgren, Robert and Chriss, Neil A., Optimal Liquidation (November 24, 1997). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=53501 or http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.53501

[3] Lorenz, Julian M. 2008. Optimal trading algorithms - Portfolio transactions, multiperiod portfolio selection, and competitive online search. Available at https://doi.org/10.3929/ethz-a-005687539

[4] Li, X., Li, Y., Zhan, Y., and Liu, X.-Y. Optimistic bull or pessimistic bear: adaptive deep reinforcement learning for stock portfolio allocation. In ICML Workshop on Applications and Infrastructure for Multi-Agent Learning, 2019b.

[5] Li, X., Li, Y., , Liu, X.-Y., and Wang, C. Risk management via anomaly circumvent: Mnemonic deep learning for midterm stock prediction. In KDD Workshop on Anomaly Detection in Finance, 2019a.

---


