---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Exploring Multi-Agent Reeinforcement Learning in Metadrive Simulation
author: Wenhao Shen (Team 16)
date: 2022-10-19
---


> Autonomous vehicle driving has always been one of the most significant field that AI could be applied on. This problem could be solved with making the agent learn gradually improve its policy with its exprience in the environment -- Reinforcement Learning. One senario of this problem is that all vehicles are self-driven particles making this problem a multi-agent system. This project seeks to research MARL under this situation, explore the optimization of coordinated policy in this multi-agent environment.

<!--more-->
{: class="table-of-content"}
* TOC
{:toc}

## Problem Satament
In this quarter, the team will try to explore these feilds or solve these problems:
-Setting up the Metadrive vehicle simulator, including muti-agent setting up
-Successfully train RL models in the environment
-Explore policy optimization
    -Coordinate agents' behavior while maximizing individual reward
    -Experiment on different situations and improve safety and efficiency


## Environment setting up
MetaDrive is a driving simulator that is compositional, lightweight and realistic. The team consider this driving senario generator a great test generator for the reinforcemnt learning methods.

## Procedure

## Current progress
Setting up MetaDrive Environment


## Referenced papers
Peng, Zhenghao, et al. “Learning to Simulate Self-Driven Particles System with Coordinated Policy Optimization.” ArXiv.org, 10 Jan. 2022, https://arxiv.org/abs/2110.13827. 

Zhang, Kaiqing, et al. “Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning: A Selective Overview of Theories and Algorithms.” ArXiv.org, 24 Nov. 2019, https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.10635v1. 

Hernandez-Leal, Pablo, et al. “A Survey and Critique of Multiagent Deep Reinforcement Learning.” ArXiv.org, 30 Aug. 2019, https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.05587. 