---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Reinforcement Learning Implementation on Financial Portfolio Optimization
author: Ziru Yan, Yongling Li, Hyosang Ahn  (Team 07)
date: 2022-10-18
---

> We want to implement Reinforcement learning on the topic of financial Portfolio optimization, which is one of the most important topic in assets mangement industry. We want to show the potential ability of Reinforcement learning on this area and, ideally, we will able to show that our model could create a portfolio which has much better performance than main index in financial market.

<!--more-->
{: class="table-of-content"}
* TOC
{:toc}

## Summary
We want to implement Reinforcement learning on the topic of financial Portfolio optimization, which is one of the most important topic in assets mangement industry. We want to show the potential ability of Reinforcement learning on this area and, ideally, we will able to show that our model could create a portfolio which has much better performance than main index in financial market.


## Goal of the project
We will start by reproducing some related papers, like Deep Reinforcement Learning with LFSS[1]. Then, we will identify and collect data that will have direct or indirect impacts on the stock market, with a focus on changes in monetary policy[2]. Furthermore, if the experiment succeeds, we will attempt to use forecasting techniques to predict the movement of the portfolio as a whole or a subset of it. We expect to create a forecast model that matches the performance of the S&P 500, a commonly used stock market index.

## Midterm Report
In an environment, the policy will make an action each day to either buy or sell stock or do nothing. 
We began an experiment starting with a random policy that gives random action to a given observation. 
To first test on a random policy, we first created an environment containing single stock environment from one company. 
This policy randomly buys and sells stocks regardless of the observation, assuming its account balance does not turn negative. 
Testing this policy on Apple’s stock data, this policy showed high robustness against the stock market crash but heavily relied on the environment. 
However, the random policy produces positive relationship between robustness and the processing time. Next, we also created a naive policy.
The policy holds to buy stocks until it observes two consecutive days where the stock price increases. 
It also sells stocks when it observes one day of price decrease yet the resulting price is still higher than the price when it bought them. 
In the last day before the set time period ends, it sells all the stocks owned. 
This policy generally earns more than the random policy, but the results are less robust.

## Reference

[1] Yashaswi, Kumar, "Deep Reinforcement Learning for Portfolio Optimization using Latent Feature State Space (LFSS) Module" 	arXiv:2102.06233. 11 Feb 2021.   

[2] Kabbani, Taylan, and Ekrem Duman. "Deep reinforcement learning approach for trading automation in the stock market." (2022). https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.07165

[3] Rao, Ashwin, and Tikhon Jelvis. Foundations of Reinforcement Learning with Applications in Finance. Chapman &amp; Hall, CRC Press, 2023.
