---
layout: post
comments: true
title: Room rearrangement and indoor environment exploration
author: Dylon Tjanaka, Kevin Tang, and Daniel Smith (Team 20)
date: 2022-10-19
---

> We investigate the problem of room rearrangement, where an agent explores a room, then attempts to restore the objects in a room to their original state.

<!--more-->
{: class="table-of-content"}
* TOC
{:toc}

## Introduction
We will investigate the problem of room rearrangement. In this task, an agent first explores a room and records the configurations of objects, using visual information available to it including RGB images and depth maps. After changing the poses/states of some objects in the room without the agent present, the agent must then restore the room to its original state.

## Environment
The room rearrangement problem consists of two phases. The first phase is the "walkthrough" phase, where our agent explores the room, and observes the objects in their intended goal state. 
The second phase is the "unshuffling" or restoration phase, where a random number of objects in the room are changed, between one and five objects. The goal is to not only identify which objects have changed, but to manipulate the objects to restore them to their initial state in the walkthrough phase. Objects may be changed by moving its position, rotating or otherwise changing its orientation, or modifying some aspect of the object, including opening/closing the object.

After some initial exploration, we decided to tackle the simpler variation of the problem. Instead of performing two separate, distinct stages, one walkthrough and one restoration, the "1-phase" challenge merges both the phases into one. In this simplification, the agent has access to both the goal state as well as the shuffle state simultaneously, and need not make two trips throughout the environment to first gather data, and then perform the manipulations. We decided to make this simplification to lower model complexity.


## Proposed Work
We will train several different types of models to perform the task, and compare their relative performance. We expect a pure RL model to struggle with this task, as Weihs et al. describe. We will apply pure RL, deep RL, and genetic algorithms to room rearrangement, with more techniques explored if time allows, including imitation learning.

## Evaluation
We will score our different models on a few key factors. One overall metric is known as Success, or simply whether or not all objects are in their goal states at the end of the agent's actions. However, this metric is quite unforgiving. If objects are in the correct position, but not in the correct orientation, that object is still counted as incorrect. Therefore, we also include a second metric, known as Misplaced. This metric counts the percentage of objects that are simply misplaced, giving us more information about how the model performs.

## Proposed Environment
Our initial explorations will be based on the [AI2-THOR](https://ai2thor.allenai.org/) open source interactive environment, which allows for AI agents to interact with a realistic 3D environment, with many built in tools for checkpointing and validation. Agents have 82 actions available to them, including moving, rotating, and/or looking in any direction, and manipulating objects in the environment. We will use the RoomR dataset compiled by [Weihs et al., 2021]. 

## Current Progress
- [x] Setup AI2THOR environment. We evaluated running AI2THOR natively, on Docker, as well as in the cloud using Google Colab. We found that Google Colab provided the most flexibility, but performance was much better when run natively or using the Docker environments.
- [x] Trial pretrained models. We tested several models based on imitation learning, including models based on ResNet18 and ResNet50 and simple imitation learning. These will form the baseline for our more finely-tuned models in the future.
- [ ] Build upon pretrained models. We will select the most promising pretrained models, and adapt them to trial various types of models to compare their performance. This work is ongoing.
- [ ] Compare and contrast approaches
- [ ] Visualize results


## References
[1] Weihs, L., Deitke, M., Kembhavi, A., & Mottaghi, R. (2021). Visual Room Rearrangement (Version 1). arXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2103.16544
2020
